## Injections & observational data


### Injections

For a parameter estimation run on simulated data (i.e., when no observational data is available), an injection-file line is required in your config.ini-file 
pointing a `dat` or `json` injection file. The injection file itself contains a list of values for each source parameter (such as masses, distance etc.) and 
is used to generate synthetic electromagnetic or gravitational-wave signals for particular sources (e.g. BNS, NSBH).

To generate an injection file, NMMA provides the command-line utility `nmma_create_injection`. This generates a json style injection file by drawing from a prior file. 


**Create GW signal injection** 

For a binary neutron star merger, we can use the [GWBNS.prior](https://github.com/nuclear-multimessenger-astronomy/nmma/blob/main/priors/GWBNS.prior) file to generate 
synthetic signals. Running the command

    nmma_create_injection --prior-file GWBNS.prior -n 10 -s 42 --eos-file <EOSdata.dat> --binary-type BNS -e json -f injection_bns --duration 128  

will create an injection file `injection_bns.json` for 10 BNS sources each having a duration of 128 s. The `eos-file` command is useful, when information from a 
particular EOS should be used. Here, the path and file name to the EOS file needs to be provided.

**Create EM signal injection** 

Taking the Metzger (2017) blue kilonova model as an example, a set of injections can be generated by using this [Me2017.prior](https://github.com/nuclear-multimessenger-astronomy/nmma/blob/main/priors/Me2017.prior) file. 
Here, we include information from an EOS called `ALF2.dat` for the generation of 100 synthetic electromagnetic kilonova signals: 

    nmma_create_injection --prior-file priors/Me2017.prior --eos-file example_files/eos/ALF2.dat --binary-type BNS --n-injection 100 --original-parameters --extension json

or for the `Bu2019lm` model:

    nmma_create_injection --prior-file priors/Bu2019lm.prior --eos-file example_files/eos/ALF2.dat --binary-type BNS --n-injection 100 --original-parameters --extension json --aligned-spin

There are other options for creating an injection file, such as a pre-computed simulation set. In this case a prior is still needed, but it will only be applied
where it is necessary. Taking the Petrov et al. 2022 samples and the Bu2019lm prior as an example:

    nmma_create_injection --injection-file example_files/sim_events/injections.dat --prior-file priors/Bu2019lm.prior --eos-file example_files/eos/ALF2.dat --binary-type BNS --n-injection 100 --original-parameters --extension json --aligned-spin

### Observational data

In contrast to synthetic data, NMMA can make use of observational data both from electromagnetic and gravitational-wave observations. In order to make sure that 
the NMMA framework can smoothly read in and interpret observed signals, a short description of the data structure can be found below.

**Electromagnetic data** 

Observatories provide observational data as a measured flux or as spectral flux density which needs to be converted to the AB magnitude system in order to be 
used within NMMA. It is important to distinguish between different spectral filters in order to run a consistent analysis. Current available filters can be
checked in [utils.py](https://github.com/nuclear-multimessenger-astronomy/nmma/blob/baf85f600a6e7369608c7bd6e76b9f1f4ec3d1cd/nmma/em/utils.py#L48). 
A specific flux or respective magnitude measurement comes along with a specific time stamp which needs to be in the ISOT time format. 
For further details, see [here](https://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/api/astropy.time.TimeISOT.html).

Example: AT2017gfo data excerpt

    2017-08-18T00:00:00.000 g 17.41000 0.02000
    2017-08-18T00:00:00.000 r 17.56000 0.04000
    2017-08-18T00:00:00.000 i 17.48000 0.03000
    2017-08-18T00:00:00.000 z 17.59000 0.03000

The first column represents the ISOT time, followed by the filter or spectral band in the second column, the measured AB magnitude and its respective error are given in the third and fourth column. This data structure detailed above is also applicable for other astrophysical sources (SNe, GRBs) or models implemented in NMMA. 
